All right we're first going to start off with resistors in series.
So let's consider the case here on the laugh.
So I've got I've labeled three points A B and C there are just points that are located on wires connecting
two different resistors are one are two I have labeled the current I and the first thing to notice about
resistors in series is if there is a current flowing through this wire it has to flow through the resistance
are.
It's going to go through point B and then it's going to flow through resistance are two through Point
C the current AI is going to be the same everywhere.
And that's very important.
If the current flows down everywhere it means that on this side of the resistance remember current always
flows the positive current always flows from the higher potential toward the lower electrical potential.
So that means at this point a is at a higher potential than this side.
It also means that the potential at this point is higher than the potential at that point.
So actually if I go through and I label the potential at three different points at a it might have some
voltage a at point B you might have some voltage B and at point C have some voltage C.
Now the voltage difference between points A and points B could write it like this.
V A mine is VB.
Sometimes you would simply call that V.
Right.
The potential difference between both of those points that is given by Ohm's law in ohms law remember
what it said the voltage drop across a resistor is equal to the value of the resistance.
In this case it's R1 multiplied by the current flowing through it.
That's simply the current I can do the same thing now for the voltage drop across the next.
There are two.
Now I'm comparing points B and point C and I know that point B is at a higher electrical potential than
point C.
So let me write it like this.
VB mine is visi.
I know I'm going to get a positive number here because current is flowing from left to right.
In this case the ohms law applied to this resistor over here is the value of the resistance are two.
And it's the same current same current flowing through it.
So if I call this equation 1 and call this equation to or what if I wanted to know what is the voltage
difference between point A and Point C Well what you could do is we can actually add both of these equations.
Look what happens if I add both of those equations.
What am I going to get.
I'm going to get vitæ because there's no other V.A term in the second equation.
Look what happens to the VB terms.
I have negative VB over here and I have VB right here.
Those are actually going to cancel out and then I'm going to be left with mine as VC.
Look with that gives me.
That is simply the potential difference between point A and Point Z at the end.
Now if I add both of these terms now on the right hand side look what I get are 1 multiplied by the
current plus are two multiplied by the current.
Well this equation.
Look what I can do to it.
I can factor out the current.
I this is simply R1 Plus are two multiplied by the current.
Now the term in the bracket is important over here.
It tells me that if I want to know the potential difference between points A and Point see Actually
I can replace both of these resistors here by 1 equivalent resistor an equivalent resistor if two of
them are in series like this is simply the algebraic sum.
So that is our equation over here.
So my equivalent resistor when I have two resistors in series you simply add them up.
Very very simple.
So if this is a forum resistor this here is a 6 ohm resistor my equivalent resistor is simply 10 homes.
I'm done.
I can simplify my network and simply replace it by 1 equivalent resistance equals the 10 ohm and then
try to solve the problem.
Now the other important thing is that the current I.
It's the same current flowing through my equivalent resistor.
It has to be the same current flowing through the forum resistor through the six ohm resistor and now
through the equivalent 10 ohm resistor.
So that is our rule number one the equivalent resistance.
If I have two of them in series with each other you simply add them up.
Well what would happen if I had 10 of them or 20 of them in series with each other.
So the more general formula now is if I have several of them that are in series with each other you
would just use the same arguments except all you do now is you simply add them up you add up all the
individual resistors that are in series with each other and then you come up with a number.
So there's some here can go from one to whatever number of resistors you have in series.
In this case I only have two.
So I only have two terms over here but if I'd have five of them then my sum would go from I equals the
1 to 5 and I'd add up all the individual values.
So resistors in series are pretty straightforward.
Simply add them up.